docs(gpu): add troubleshooting for nvidia-driver (#1059)
scaleway/docs-content: compute/gpu/troubleshooting/fix-driver-issues.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Fixing GPU issues after installing nvidia-driver packages

>   description: This section provides information how to fix GPU issues after installing nvidia-driver packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: This section provides information on how to fix GPU issues after installing nvidia-driver packages
```

content:
  h1: Fixing GPU issues after installing nvidia-driver packages

>   paragraph:  This section provides information how to fix GPU issues after installing nvidia-driver packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paragraph:  This section provides information on how to fix GPU issues after installing nvidia-driver packages
```

tags: gpu issue error driver nvidia-driver sleep gpu-instance
dates:
  validation: 2022-12-01
  posted: 2022-12-01
categories:
  - compute
---

> All Scaleway [GPU Instances](/compute/gpu/quickstart/) come with a Nvida driver pre-installed. This means you do not have to install them by yourself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All Scaleway [GPU Instances](/compute/gpu/quickstart/) come with a Nvidia driver pre-installed. This means you do not have to install them by yourself.
```

> The drivers installed on each Instance are from the `nividia-headless-<driver version>` packages. These are intended for use on cloud Instances without a Windows Desktop or display server. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The drivers installed on each Instance are from the `nividia-headless-<driver version>` packages. These are intended for use on Instances without a Windows Desktop or display server. 
```

<Message type="important">

>     The manual installation of a `nvidia-driver` package forces the installation of the `xorg` display server and other Gnome packages. As there is no physical display connected to the GPU of your Instance, this may cause side-effects such as your Instance entering into sleep mode after a while, resulting in the user being disconnected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The manual installation of a `nvidia-driver` package forces the installation of the `xorg` display server and other Gnome packages. As there is no physical display connected to the GPU of your Instance, this may cause side-effects such as your Instance entering into sleep mode after a while. The user will get disconnected as a result.
```

</Message>

> In case you installed any `nvidia-driver-*` packages on your GPU Instance, remove them from the Instance using the `apt purge` command and make sure to install and use `nvidia-headless-*` packages instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have `nvidia-driver-*` packages installed on your GPU Instance, remove them from the Instance using the `apt purge` command and make sure to install and use `nvidia-headless-*` packages instead.
```
